# Intro to JavaScript

*Machine Code:*
A rudimentary set of instructions that the computer understands (AKA Binary Code)

*Compiler:*
A piece of software that takes a program written in human-readable language and translates it into binary code

*Source Code:*
Human-readable code created by the programmer

*JavaScript:*
A general-purpose programming language originally intended to bring dynamic behavior to websites

*Syntax:*
Precise rules within a programming language

*Statement:*
Basic building block in JavaScript. A sentence that conveys one command

*; (semi-colon):*
Terminates a statement

*Notes:* Statements are processed in order from top to bottom.

*Comments:*
Lines of text that programmers embed in code as documentation. Comments enable programmers to leave human-readale messages in their code. The compiler ignores comments

*Line Comments (//):*
A comment that you write in a single line of text. The compiler ignores all text to the right of two consecutive forward slashes.

*Multi-Line Comments (/ * and * /):*
A comment that spans multiple lines. Begins with a / * and ends with a * /. Programmers often place a multi-line comment at the beginning of a program. The comment can provide background information, like purpose, authorship, or version.

*White Space:*
Blank lines, spaces and tabs interspersed throughout the code.

*Console:*
Text-based device that converses with the program user.

*Pseudocode:* 
An outline of the steps you need to walk through in code.

*Variable:* 
A name that represents a data value

*Declare a Variable:*
In JavaScript, you use the "let" keyword, and set it's value with an equals sign "=", also called the **assignment operator**.

*Literal Values/Literals:*
Character data/words. These are called literals because you literally provide the values in the code.

*Expression:*
Combines variables

*Constants:*
Similar to variables in that they also refer to some data. However, you cannot make changes to the value of a constant.

*Number (data type):*
Holds a numeric value (can start with + or - and can end with an "e" to the power of 10)

*String (data type):*
A sequence of zer or more characters enclosed in single (') or double (") quotation marks

*Boolean:*
Can store only two possible values: true or false. You don't enclose those words in quotes (true and false are reserved words in JavaScript).

*Object:*
Holds a set of related properties/variables for a value.

*Object Literals:*
Is defined by placing property names and values inside a set of curly braces: {}

*Dot Notation:*
References the individual properties of an object