# Functions

If the *main process* = your complete JavaScript program, then a *subprocess* = a *function* within your program.

Advantages of Functions:

- Break down a large program to make it more manageable.
- Reduce the complexity of the main program by hiding detail steps
- Promote reuse within the same program and its other functions
- They're independently verifiable

## Declaring and Running a Function:

Functions are named by including what it does, like how a variable is named by what it contains.

Rules of Functions and Variables:
- Consists of letters A-Z, a-z, characters _, $, and digits 0-9
- Must start with a letter, _, or $
- Case-sensitive
- May not be a JavaScript reserved keyword

*Note:* Functions also typically follow the *camelCase* format, but a company or team may have their own naming convention.

**Declaring a Function:**

You delcare functions with the **function** keyword, followed by the function name. A function also requires a pair of parentesis following the name and opening and closing curly braces:

//declare function printGreeting

    function printGreeting (){

    console.log ('Hello');

    }

*Note:* "methods," "procedures," and "subroutines" are all ways to refer to functions

**Input Parameters:**

Parameters are similar to variables, but the function starts off with the parameters declared but not defined.

Anything that you can store in a JavaScript variable can be a parameter of a function.

Functions can have multiple parameters - they appear in the parentheses, separated by commas:

    //Declare function printGreeting - takes in two parameters

    function printGreeting(name, greetingWord) {
    
    console.log(greetingWord + ' ' + name);

    }

The values passed into the function are in the same order as the function declaration.

## Return Values

Return statements exist to move the value *out* of a function and back to the calling code.

You can assign the return value to a variable, enabling it to be used outside of the function.

One way to represent a test case is by using a common shorthand syntax where:
- the left-side of the arrow shows the function call with the specific values for the input parameters
- the right side shows the expected return value

*Example:*

        calculateSum(10, 5) --> 15

Test Failures:
- The first like (starts with 1) describes what they test checks
- The line that begins with *** includes the return value *expected* from the test and the *actual* value returned from your function
- The lines that follow tell you the values that the test send to the function as *inputs*