# Loops

There are three distinct patterns for loops
- Repeat while a condition is true
- Repeat a fixed number of times
- Repeat for each item in a list of items (such as an array)

**While** statement includes 3 parts:
- The 'While' keyword
- A condition, which is a Boolean expression.
- A block of code that runs if the condition is true.

*Example:*

    while (condition) {
        //code block
    }
    //additional code

*Note:* If the condition is **false**, the code block does not run. After the last line of code, the program checks the condition again and proceeds to run until the condition is false.

To apply a Repeat *n* pattern, you use a counter variable

When you use a counter variable, you must:
- Declare and initialize loopCounter **before** the while loop.
- You can call the counter variable anything you want.
- You must modify the counter inside the loop. If you don't, the condition remains true, and you'll end up with an infinite loop.
- You can count up or down

*Example:*

    let loopCounter = 0;
    while (loopCounter < 10) {
        //code block to repeat
        loopCounter = loopCounter +1;
    }

**Increment/Decrement Operators:**

Decrement Operator (subtracts 1 from variable): --
Increment Operator (adds 1 to variable): ++

## The 'For' Statement

    for (initialization; condition; increment) {
        //code block
    }

Notice the structure matches the while code:
- Initialization (let loopCounter = 0)
- Condition (loopCounter < 10)
- Increment (loopCounter ++)
- Then JavaScript reevaluates the condition to see if the loop runs again

*Note:*
In most situations, when you need a repeat *n* times loop, use for rather than while. Doing so helps you prevent errors.

*Example:*

    for (let loopCounter = 0; loopCounter < 10; loopCounter ++) {
        //code block to repeat
    }

## Repeat for Each
THis pattern allows you to run the same set of steps for each item on a list.

In JavaScript, you typically use an **array** to track lists or collections of variables. 

You already have all the skills to iterate over an array:
- You can address a single element of an array by using an index, like myArray[0].
- You can determine the number of elements in an array by accessing the lenght property.
- And now, you know about the for statement.

With these skills, you can write a loop that processes each element:

    let myArray = [/*array elements here */];
    for (let i = 0; i < myArray.length; i++) {
        let myElement = myArray[i];
        //Do something with myElement
    }

You can vary the types of loops you use!
